#Richard Stallman's freedom is incomplete

Richar Stallman nicely repeats the gist of the [GNU philosophy](http://www.wired.com/opinion/2013/09/why-free-software-is-more-important-now-than-ever-before) in his opinion blog post at wired.com. In the meanwhile, we have so many new freedom problems that are not mentioned separately in the GNU philosophy and that require attention. They concern issues of computing freedom too. As Marc Andreessen puts it: ["software is eating the world"](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460.html).

The issue of software freedom is no longer confined to software itself. It is affecting all areas in life. Software platforms are now being used to deliver [higher education](https://www.coursera.org, and so on). Software platforms could also be used to deliver basic healthcare. Regulations are preventing that. Regulations are also preventing that people use software platforms in assisting them to give their children the necessary academic elements in their education. The school system is under control of governments and corporations. They do not want us to have the freedom to educate the children as we prefer. They want to keep full control over their indoctrination platform.

One key pillar of freedom is to remove the control that governments and corporations have over the money system. [Cryptocurrencies](http://bitcoin.org) decentralize money and take away the ability from governments and corporations (i.e. banks) to create money, control it, confiscate it, or have other venues to abuse that power. Of course, all these battles are eventually vested in the ability to control the software that powers these decentralized user-controlled systems. I entirely underwrite the GNU manifesto. However, I just see it as a specific application of the first law:

_And thus spoke the Almighty, the lawmaking god who freed us out of slavery in Egypt: One. First Law. You shall recognize no other lawmaker than me._

If the first law gets defeated, all other commandments protecting our freedom will go out of the window too; and then we shall indeed become slaves in Egypt again.

I am always on the floor laughing when, for example, the Christian clergy de-emphasizes the importance of the first law and invents statements like: _You must obey the law of the land._ I am just waiting for the politicians to finally force the Christian clergy to bless lesbian marriages. In the name of God, of course. That will teach the Christian clergy not to de-emphasize the first law. Since they do not care that we become slaves in Egypt again, what when it is their turn? It has become clear to me that the Christian clergy will only care about the problem if they, themselves, are first-hand victims. So, yes, I entirely agree and support the politicians with their plan to force the Christian clergy to bless lesbian marriages. Then, we can ask the Christian clergy:

_Why do you seem to object to the law of the land only now, my friend? Pay by yourself this time, the price for preaching heresies._

It may sound cynical to make use of the lesbians as well as the hated politicians, to teach the Christian clergy a lesson about the first commandment, but sometimes that is what it takes to make a point; and at least they can still be saved. The other ones probably not. You can only have one master. It is not me. It is not them. It is Him, the only one that you must obey. And yes, _He_ may not even exist. Does that really bother you? Do you really prefer a master that does exist, dummy? I actually like it very much the way it is now, thank you.

I see the GNU copy-left approach as a fantastic game to defeat copy-right. You see, fundamentally, I do not particularly recognize any copy-right "law". The origin of copy-right "law" is not divine. So, no, it is not a law. However, instead of openly defying this political invention, I definitely prefer to engage in some kind of copy-left game. We can indeed defeat that kind of non-laws by exploiting their glaring contradictions. Defeating the bullies at their own game is an _auto-da-fé_: an act of faith.

You see, the general rule is that no other entity can make rules that are truly universal, other than the one who created the universe in the first place.

It is quite simple to prove that statement. Study any human-invented rule carefully and you will see that it is full of loopholes and contradictions; which proves the general rule itself. With each [counterexample](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counterexample) that the bullies cannot do what the Supreme Being can do, everybody's faith in the Supreme Being is being reinforced. So, yes, using copy-left in order to defeat copy-right, is a matter of religion and therefore an act of faith.

The politicians must _not_ be allowed to universally control money, currency, and banking. Such outcome is forbidden by the first law. That is why the faithful must do everything they can to make the crypto-currencies such as bitcoin a success. Only the Supreme Being has the authority and the ability to exercise universal control. The politicians will not achieve their goal, and their use of force will be in vain, simply because they are not capable -- not even to save themselves from drowning -- of doing what the Supreme Being has done. Their attempts are and will be full of errors. We must use these inevitable errors to undo and neutralize the errors in which they are contained.

So, yes, I like the GNU manifesto. Fundamentally, however, Richard Stallman seems to recognize the politicians as lawmakers. When Richard Stallman speaks, he seems to accept laws of origin, that is not divine but political. This is an error. That view is in violation of the first law. To be an atheist -- like Richard Stallman says he is -- is no problem, as long as you do not appoint other lawmakers than the only legitimate one; because that is exactly the point where the error occurs. The first law is not just sparing religious people from becoming slaves in Egypt. The first law also protects the freedom of atheists. It is because of the first law that the GNU manifesto holds the moral high ground. It is by defeating the false copy-right lawmaker at his own game that the GNU philosophy has succeeded.

One of the next battles with the bullies, is about the crypto-currencies. The politicians and their servants are now already attacking the bitcoin exchange platforms, such as [Mount Gox](https://www.mtgox.com). The problem is that the current exchange platforms are centralized systems. The politicians and their servants can easily attack them in order to attain their goal, that is, in order to establish universal godlike rule over their Egyptian slaves.

Some people pretend that the bullies need this control to prevent drug dealers from dealing drugs; just as if the drug dealers were not already dealing drugs. The true reason why the bullies want universal godlike control over currency are things like [FACTA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_Account_Tax_Compliance_Act). They want to control their Egyptian slaves, wherever they happen to reside. The fact that they need to drag non-Egyptians into slavery too -- i.e. the foreign banks who must now denounce their US customers -- is obviously just a bonus; a windfall profit. Are they going to catch wealthy people with this, with large sums invested? [Obviously not](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_Irish_arrangement). That is not even the purpose.

The origin of Roman "law" is a society with nobility, called _patricians_, and commoners, called _plebeians_. The Romans were amongst the first ones in history to solve a pernicuous problem. How do we make sure that the patricians are always right and the plebeians always wrong, without openly admitting this?

The solution is complicated and convoluted, but it works. Even the plebeians accepted Roman "law" in spite of the first law, which forbids legally favouring one person over the other. The Roman plebeians were excellent Egyptian slaves, until the Roman empire collapsed. A system can, of course, only contain thát many errors before the errors take over, overwhelm it, and then sink it.

To an outsider, Roman "law" looked stupid and laughable. You had to be born in it, in order to actually believe and accept it. But then again, Roman "law" does not look more stupid than the contemporary legal inventions that have been judisciously derived from Roman "law" and that have replaced it.

You can easily see that a law is human-invented, simply because it contains loopholes and errors. Such law must not be allowed to spread universally. Actually, it is better that it does not spread at all. To exploit its errors and to neutralize it, is therefore an _auto-da-fé_. Not only it gives us the satisfaction of performing an act of faith, but it also testifies to our allegiance to the one and only legitimate lawmaker, the Supreme Being.

Even [Odin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Odin) is the slave of the agreements he made. Sticking to the agreements that you freely entered, is not slavery at all. Obligations resulting from agreements are the unfreedom that enable our freedom. This is another important reason why we can never entirely be free. We can still to an important extent, be free of the inventions that the bullies unilaterally try to impose on us. Their inventions will always contain enough errors for that.

Why do I maximally incite other people to exploit the error in human-invented "law"? Because the more you keep the bullies busy, the less time and resources they have to harrass other people including myself. Indeed, the more trouble the bullies have to enforce their existing inventions, the more unlikely that they will manage to roll out yet another annoyance. So, yes, please keep them struggling with their ridiculously buggy stuff. The internet was originally very free of government idiocies. Now, the politicians and their servants are encroaching again. It has to stop. Really.

What about democracy? 

I reject it. I am absolutely not bound by what other idiots believe. I am only bound by the laws of the Supreme Being and by the agreements that I freely entered. Every other unilaterally-imposed obligation, is an invitation to neutralize it in one way or another. Furthermore, [the right to govern China](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandate_of_Heaven) is granted by heaven, and not by the other idiots.

I do not particularly like the use of force. Such use has to be legitimate and it is seriously hard to do that kind of things correctly. The more the use of force reflects the stupidity of the one using it, the more I reject it. Governments, i.e. the politicians and their servants are notoriously stupid, and use force in order to impose their own inventions, which seriously lacks legitimacy. So, yes, I am indeed on the floor laughing when they become victims in their own game.

An attack on bitcoin itself is not particularly feasible for the bullies because the bitcoin system is entirely decentralized. [Satoshi Nakamoto](http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf) seems to have been in contact with higher powers who inspired him on how to carry out the bitcoin plan. The [zero-knowledge proof](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-knowledge_proof) extension to it, [zerocoin](http://zerocoin.org) also looks like an essential and inspired mechanism.

At the moment, it is mostly the credit card companies that adjudicate on the internet. This is imperfect. However, this situation is already substantially better than the justice system run directly by the politicians and their servants. As explained earlier, the existing, Roman-law justice system is not meant to bring justice, but to justify injustices. If justice is ever going to be administered properly in the realm of trade and commerce, we will need to see progress in pluggable adjudication through the use of [multi-signature escrow transactions](http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/pawlo/blockchaininfo_now_supports_mofn_multisignature/). Companies like Ebay may be imperfect market authorities, but they are obviously so much better than any system run directly by the bullies. Buyers and sellers in every market complain that justice is slow, expensive, incompetent and usually also unfair. Money transmission systems with pluggable adjucation should propel more online, specialized, decentralized markeet authorities to the forefront and allow us to trade without the fear of bullies imposing their injustices. Indeed, not every market authority is Ebay and can buy Paypal. The other ones will have to use money transmission systems with pluggable adjucation.

The good thing about these fantastically useful areas in mathematics is that the bullies do not understand them at all. That should give us another ten years of peace. The price of freedom is indeed eternal vigilance. Software freedom can be used to increase freedom everywhere. The alternative is that the lack of software freedom will continue to power the surveillance and choice-elimination system that Edward Snowden so much decried.

We need to make work of decentralizing the bitcoin exchange platforms and reinforce its pluggable adjudication system. The battle against the bullies must continue. No entity should ever establish universal rule and in that way take the place of the Supreme Being while turning all of us into Egyptian slaves.

